C. Aschermann, S. Schumilo, A. Abbasi and T. Holz, "Ijon: Exploring Deep State Spaces via Fuzzing," 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 2020, pp. 1597-1612, doi: 10.1109/SP40000.2020.00117.

SUMMARY: The state space of programs presents grand challenges to fuzz testers. For example, the state of a path can often change over the course of a program. Thus, fuzzers that focus solely on code coverage, but not state space, may not discover deep vulnerabilities with complex state machines. Moreover, the state space of a program can grow quite large, which limits complex solutions such as symbolic execution. In this paper, the authors propose Ijon, a fuzzer that enables manual annotations from humans to help guide the fuzzing process. Ijon allows human analysts to annotate the feedback function of the fuzzer, which can help explore more interesting and complex behaviors. The authors extended various AFL-based fuzzers with Ijon. These fuzzers could then efficiently explore the state spaces of Super Mario Bros., a maze, a software emulation of a TPM module, and a hash map implementation. 

<hr/>

S. Park, W. Xu, I. Yun, D. Jang and T. Kim, "Fuzzing JavaScript Engines with Aspect-preserving Mutation," 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 2020, pp. 1629-1642, doi: 10.1109/SP40000.2020.00067.

SUMMARY: Existing fuzzing approaches, such as generative or mutational, often fail to generate new test cases that preserve subtle semantics and conditions within the input corpus. For JavaScript-like complex programs, ignoring these semantics and conditions leads fuzzers to only reach shallow bugs. In this paper, the authors present DIE, a JavaScript engine fuzzer that implements a new technique, called aspect-preserving mutation. The premise of this mutation technique is as follows: the fuzzer stochastically preserves the structure, and type, i.e., properties, of inputs when generating new test cases. A structure could be a control-flow structure, e.g., loops and branches. Both mutation strategies are implemented using a types abstract syntax tree, which provides a structural view of an input with the annotated type information in each node. DIE discovered 48 bugs (including 12 CVEs) in major JavaScript engines such as ChakraCore, JavaScriptCore, and V8.

<hr/>
